# What is Solid? 

Solid is a catalyst to create initiatives for building a fair web. 

These initiatives can be: 
- Starting new technical standards or entering existing standards processes to ensure interoperability and privacy
- Tools for users to identify which services are in line with the Solid values 
- Building services that are essential to deliver the Solid values and do not yet exist in the market 
- Providing forums to have conversations about recent developments and how to make sure they align with Solid values 

Solid is led by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web, and originated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). It is a non-commerical, open source collaboration between thousands of expert contributors from around the world.

Solid is user centric rather than solution centric. Users can be anything from a person, to a company, to a government.

Data generated by users while using services such as applications or data storage is associated to the user rather than to the service. Solid allows users to decide the conditions of data usage such as: where data resides, who can access user data, for what purpose, when, and for how long. Users data preferences are given priority over the service providers data preferences. For example, Solid applications allow users to securely move to other applications at will and take their user data with them. 

Solid seperates user identification from data storage from data usage: 

1.	Login: Solid identification online is designed so that it is independent from parties that could access who users are interacting with
2.	Pods: Solid data storage is designed so that data is stored safely by the user idependently of how that data is used in a recyclable reusable manor 
3.	Apps: Solid applications have granular access to user data meaning they only get a specific type of data neccesary to deliver the service provided

# Solid Mission 

Build solutions for a fair web for all. 

# Solid Vision 

A nurturing love of collaboration and knowledge creation for the public interest

# Solid Values 

* Self-determination

Users should be able to freely chose how their data is accessed and used by who, when, and for how long, under what conditions. Users should have the right to determine where their user data is stored, who has access to it, how it is used and for how long. Granularity of these decisions, as well as being presented with multiple options, is important for that self determination to be valid. 

Users should be able to use Solid in a way that works for them and shouldn’t be subject to doctrine, dictation or directive.

Solid does not define which data should be controlled by which user.

* Diversity

Users should be able to chose a from a variety of services that work together with other services. Users should be able to change their mind about which service they use and take their data along with them in a convenient way.  

Users should be able to move seamlessly between online services without interruption. 

Online services including storage of data, identification online, and use of data for an application should always be interoperable with each other. Data should slot seamlessly from one Solid app or Pod to another without permission from each other. Solid app and Pod providers should be able to easily innovate by creating new apps or improving current apps, all while reusing existing data that was created by other apps.

Unnecessary technical hurdles or business opportunities should not be used as an excuse to not provide interoperability. 

* Fairness

Online interactions should be fair for everyone involved both for consumption and creation i.e. the read-write web. While development may require education this should also be freely available and accessible to all.

The web should be available everywhere and should be indiscriminate in the way it operates and speaks to everyone.

* Efficiency 

There should be a minimum number of rules. Rules should be essential to providing interoperability and fairness. 

# References 
The following texts have led up to the development of Solid and are key references to those working on Solid. 

* [Ethical Web Principles](https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/ethical-web-principles/)
* [Agile Manifesto](https://agilemanifesto.org/)
* [IoT Manifesto](https://www.iotmanifesto.com)
* [Linked Data Principles](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/linked-data/0/steps/16087)
